README.md, before:

## Welcome to the BTT AJL Biotin Team Repo! 
This repository is the main working space for our team for our submission for the Equitable AI for Dermatology kaggle competition!

## Our team members are:
- Samantha Quan
- Chelsey Parker
- Alexis Evans
- Nasrin Ali
- Jawad Rada
- Jawad Kabir

## Our Project:
The Equitable AI for Dermatology competition challenged students to create a machine learning model that classifies 21 different skin conditions across diverse skin tones and addresses historical bias of those typically excluded from AI models. Break Through Tech AI Fellows from the Virtual, Boston (MIT), and Los Angeles (UCLA) programs competed to see whose model could most accurately assess skin conditions. Due to a lack of diverse training data in dermatology AI tools, people with darker skin tones are often diagnosed incorrectly which can lead to delayed treatments and health disparities for those groups. The competition seeks to address this issue by building an inclusive machine learning model for dermatology.

Commit message:

Added data exploration info and some links

README.md, after:

## Welcome to the BTT AJL Biotin Team Repo! 
This repository is the main working space for our team for our submission for the Equitable AI for Dermatology kaggle competition!

## Our team members are:
- [Samantha Quan]([url](https://github.com/samanthaquan))
- Chelsey Parker
- Alexis Evans
- [Nasrin Ali]([url](https://github.com/nasrina081))
- [Jawad Rada]([url](https://github.com/jawadrada))
- [Jawad Kabir]([url](https://github.com/joewadk))

## Our Project:
The Equitable AI for Dermatology competition challenged students to create a machine learning model that classifies 21 different skin conditions across diverse skin tones and addresses historical bias of those typically excluded from AI models. Break Through Tech AI Fellows from the Virtual, Boston (MIT), and Los Angeles (UCLA) programs competed to see whose model could most accurately assess skin conditions. Due to a lack of diverse training data in dermatology AI tools, people with darker skin tones are often diagnosed incorrectly which can lead to delayed treatments and health disparities for those groups. The competition seeks to address this issue by building an inclusive machine learning model for dermatology.

## Data Exploration
We used a subset of the FitzPatrick17k dataset provided by the Algorithmic Justice League. The FitzPatrick17k dataset contains ~17,000 labeled images of varying serious and cosmetic dermatological conditions across a range of skin tones scored on the FitzPatrick skin tone scale (FST). This subset contains ~4,500 images depicting only 21 skin conditions out of the 100+ in the full dataset.
We started this challenge by exploring the data and understanding where the dataset lacked. We applied image preprocessing techniques such as hash normalization, convolution, rescaling, and cropping to the images.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3f26b10-b66b-48a7-a70f-4688d4ad557d)

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9947ba95-b544-4c28-a775-dd473fe8dc2c)

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9b0459f3-22ff-4fd0-b190-f93a5076239f)
